feat: Changes for PKI support (#4000)
cypress-io/cypress-documentation: content/guides/references/client_certificates.md

---

> title: Certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Client Certificates
```

---

> It is possible in Cypress to configure CA and client certificates to use within tests on a per URL basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure CA and client certificates to use within tests on a per-URL basis.
```

> <Alert type="info">
> 
> <strong class="alert-header">How to specify client certificate info</strong>
> 
> This document is only a reference to offer guidance on how to specify certificate file paths for given test URLs. For information on the content and purpose of such files, please search elsewhere as this is not within the scope of Cypress documentation.
> 
> </Alert>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Alert type="info">

<strong class="alert-header">Document Scope</strong>

This document merely offers guidance on how to specify certificate file paths for given test URLs. Details around the content and purpose of such files are not within the scope of Cypress documentation.

</Alert>
```

## Structure within JSON config file

To configure CA / client certificates within your cypress.env.json, you should add a section at the top level something like:

```
  "clientCertificates": [
    {
      "url": "https://a.host.com",
      "ca": [
          "certs/ca.pem"
      ],
      "certs": [
        {
          "cert": "certs/cert.pem",
          "key": "certs/private.key",
          "passphrase": "certs/pem-passphrase.txt"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "url": "https://b.host.com/a_base_route/**",
      "ca": [],
      "certs": [
        {
          "pfx": "/home/tester/certs/cert.pfx",
          "passphrase": "/home/tester/certs/pfx-passphrase.txt"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "url": "https://a.host.*.com/",
      "ca": [],
      "certs": [
        {
          "pfx": "certs/cert.pfx",
          "passphrase": "certs/pfx-passphrase.txt"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

> ```

Reviewer: Where is the schema for this?

Author: This is in the main cypress.schema.json file, or rather, it will be when https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/15179/ is merged :)

**Notes:**
 * The passhprase value must always point to a text file containing the phrase, not the phrase itself. 
 * URL is a required value for each certificate 'block' within the config
 * For any given URL block, you *must* specify either a PFX file, *or* a PEM format cert/key pair of files, but not both. 

>  * As you can see above, wildcards are supported for the url value, but no other values. These wildcards must follow Javascript minimatch (https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch) rules

Reviewer: I'd like to organize this better but I'll need some time to understand the changes in https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/15179

Author: Not sure how to respond here. Is there anything you want us to do?

Reviewer 2: > Not sure how to respond here. Is there anything you want us to do?

Not yet, if there is, we'll let you know. Thanks!
